# Machine-recognition-of-contours

The goal of this project is to test how well a convolutional neural network is able to recognize a contour (shapes) within and image. There are two types of images in this experiment: gabor images and natural images. 

Gabor images can have no contours, circle contours, or square contours. The no-contour gabor images consist of just noise: a field of randomly placed and randomly oriented gabor elements. Contour images with contours have noise in addition to a contour. Contours can be either a square or a circle. Although these contours are not directly shown in the image, they are formed by gabor elements having the correct placements along the contour as well as the correct orientation. In summary, all gabor images have noise, but some have square or circle contours embedded in them. The noise makes it more difficult to detect the contour, but this is itentional. After a convolutional neural network is trained with gabor images, It is the job of the convolutional neural netowrk to classify a gabor images as having no contour, a square contour, or a circle contour.

Natural images, like gabor images, have circle contours, square contours, or no contours. Natural images always have a natural background, such as a lake. The contours are explicity drawn. For example, a fully drawn circle. However, there are 5 types of natural images: no-contour, filled circle contour, outline circle contour, outline square contour, filled circle contour. These contours are roughly the same size as those in the gabor images.  After a convolutional neural network is trained with natural images, It is the job of the convolutional neural netowrk to classify a natural images as having no contour, a filled square contour, an outline square contour, a filled circle contour, or an outline circle contour.

In addition, images are transfer trained. That is, a convolutional neural network is trained with gabor images and tested with natural images and vice versa. 
